README.md, before:

# Wasserstein SPN Weight Estimation
A method that uses a Wasserstein loss to optimize the weights of a stochastic Petri net. This method almost directly optimizes the nets Earth Mover's Stochastic Conformance score.

## Getting Started
This repository contains a `docker` folder that helps you running the application in a Docker container.
Currently, we use the `jupyter/tensorflow-notebook` as base image. Therefore, running `docker compose up` will start a notebook in the background, which is a bit of overkill.
However, this facilitates easy experimentation with the method (calling it repetitively or using `PM4Py` to show and analyze the resulting SPN).

To run the container:

1. Change into the `docker` folder.
2. Change the NB_UID and NB_GID to your own ids (otherwise you may run into problems with file permissions). Potentially, you will also have to change the port for the notebook in the `docker-compose.yml` file (currently this is set to 8889).
3. Run `docker compose build`
4. Run `docker compose up`
5. Attach to the notebook. You will find an example notebook how to call the method. **Or:** Attach to the running container. In the `ot_backprop_pnwo` folder, there is a `scripts` folder that illustrates how you can run the method.

## Non-docker Setup
You can create a `conda` enviroment as follows:

    conda create --name <env> --file requirements.txt

Note that the requirement file is a bit bloated (i.e., it contains a jupyter notebook and a lot of data science packages that are not strictly required).

Commit message:

A few updates on the docker side as well as a possible resolution for problems running the method on a MAC: - Removed dependency to the "wasserstein" package (I used this for   testing purposes - that is, do I get the same result as the POT   package) . - Updating the environment using mamba (conda is sooo slow). - Added a Dockerfile that attempts to install the Python Optimal   Transport package using pip. Latter will try to compile the required c   libraries which might solve problems of not finding the appropriate   pre-build Python package. - Updated the README.

README.md, after:

# Wasserstein SPN Weight Estimation
A method that uses a Wasserstein loss to optimize the weights of a stochastic Petri net. This method almost directly optimizes the nets Earth Mover's Stochastic Conformance score.

## Getting Started
This repository contains a `docker` folder that helps you running the application in a Docker container.
Currently, we use the `jupyter/tensorflow-notebook` as base image. Therefore, running `docker compose up` will start a notebook in the background, which is a bit of overkill.
However, this facilitates easy experimentation with the method (calling it repetitively or using `PM4Py` to show and analyze the resulting SPN).

To run the container:

1. Change into the `docker` folder.
2. Change the NB_UID and NB_GID to your own ids (otherwise you may run into problems with file permissions). Potentially, you will also have to change the port for the notebook in the `docker-compose.yml` file (currently this is set to 8889).
3. Run `docker compose build`
4. Run `docker compose up`
5. Attach to the notebook. You will find an example notebook how to call the method. **Or:** Attach to the running container. In the `ot_backprop_pnwo` folder, there is a `scripts` folder that illustrates how you can run the method.

### Known Problems
The default build tries to install the Python Optimal Transport (POT) package from conda-forge. 
This can cause problems if there does not exist a pre-build version for your machine since POT depends on C libraries. 
Consequently, the image build might not "find" this package resulting in the following error.

        ResolvePackageNotFound:
            - pot

In this case, you can try to use the provided `./docker/environment-compile.yml` file (i.e., replace the occurrence of `enviroment.yml` in the Dockerfile).
The installation using pip will attempt to compile the required C libraries (the linux image should contain a C compiler by default).

## Non-docker Setup
You can create a `conda` enviroment as follows:

    conda create --name <env> --file requirements.txt

Note that the requirement file is a bit bloated (i.e., it contains a jupyter notebook and a lot of data science packages that are not strictly required).
